From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
"Encrypt" redirects here. For the film, see Encrypt (film).
This article is about algorithms for encryption and decryption. For an overview of cryptographic technology in general, see Cryptography.

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2011)
In cryptography, encryption is the process of encoding messages or information in such a way that only authorized parties can read it.[1] Encryption doesn't prevent hacking but it reduces the likelihood that the hacker will be able to read the data that is encrypted.[2]:374 In an encryption scheme, the message or information, referred to as plaintext, is encrypted using an encryption algorithm, turning it into an unreadable ciphertext.[2] This is usually done with the use of an encryption key, which specifies how the message is to be encoded. Any adversary that can see the ciphertext should not be able to determine anything about the original message. An authorized party, however, is able to decode the ciphertext using a decryption algorithm, that usually requires a secret decryption key, that adversaries do not have access to. For technical reasons, an encryption scheme usually needs a key-generation algorithm to randomly produce keys.

Contents  [hide] 
1 Kinds of encryption
1.1 Symmetric key encryption
1.2 Public key encryption
2 Uses of encryption
2.1 Message verification
3 See also
4 References
5 Further reading
6 External links
Kinds of encryption[edit]
Symmetric key encryption[edit]
In Symmetric-key schemes,[3] the encryption and decryption keys are the same. Thus communicating parties must agree on a secret key before they wish to communicate.

Public key encryption[edit]


Illustration of how a file or document is sent using Public key encryption.
In public-key encryption schemes, the encryption key is published for anyone to use and encrypt messages. However, only the receiving party has access to the decryption key and is capable of reading the encrypted messages.[4] Public-key encryption is a relatively recent invention: historically, all encryption schemes have been symmetric-key (also called private-key) schemes.[2]:478

One of the earliest public key encryption applications was called Pretty Good Privacy (PGP). It was written in 1991 by Phil Zimmermann and was purchased by Symantec in 2010.[5]

Uses of encryption[edit]
Encryption has long been used by militaries and governments to facilitate secret communication. It is now commonly used in protecting information within many kinds of civilian systems. For example, the Computer Security Institute reported that in 2007, 71% of companies surveyed utilized encryption for some of their data in transit, and 53% utilized encryption for some of their data in storage.[6] Encryption can be used to protect data "at rest", such as files on computers and storage devices (e.g. USB flash drives). In recent years there have been numerous reports of confidential data such as customers' personal records being exposed through loss or theft of laptops or backup drives. Encrypting such files at rest helps protect them should physical security measures fail. Digital rights management systems, which prevent unauthorized use or reproduction of copyrighted material and protect software against reverse engineering (see also copy protection), is another somewhat different example of using encryption on data at rest.[citation needed]

Encryption is also used to protect data in transit, for example data being transferred via networks (e.g. the Internet, e-commerce), mobile telephones, wireless microphones, wireless intercom systems, Bluetooth devices and bank automatic teller machines. There have been numerous reports of data in transit being intercepted in recent years.[7] Encrypting data in transit also helps to secure it as it is often difficult to physically secure all access to networks.[citation needed]

Message verification[edit]
Encryption, by itself, can protect the confidentiality of messages, but other techniques are still needed to protect the integrity and authenticity of a message; for example, verification of a message authentication code (MAC) or a digital signature. Standards for cryptographic software and hardware to perform encryption are widely available, but successfully using encryption to ensure security may be a challenging problem. A single slip-up in system design or execution can allow successful attacks. Sometimes an adversary can obtain unencrypted information without directly undoing the encryption. See, e.g., traffic analysis, TEMPEST, or Trojan horse.[citation needed]

Digital signature and encryption must be applied at message creation time (i.e. on the same device it has been composed) to avoid tampering. Otherwise any node between the sender and the encryption agent could potentially tamper it. It should be noted that encrypting at the time of creation only adds security if the encryption device itself has not been tampered with.

See also[edit]
Portal icon	Cryptography portal
Substitution cipher
Rotor cipher machines
Brute-force attack
Cold boot attack
Cyberspace Electronic Security Act (in the US)
Disk encryption
Key management
Physical Layer Encryption
References[edit]
Jump up ^ "Encryption Basics | EFF Surveillance Self-Defense Project." Encryption Basics | EFF Surveillance Self-Defense Project. Surveillance Self-Defense Project, n.d. Web. 06 Nov. 2013. <https://ssd.eff.org/tech/encryption>.
^ Jump up to: a b c Goldreich, Oded. Foundations of Cryptography: Volume 2, Basic Applications. Vol. 2. Cambridge university press, 2004.
Jump up ^ Symmetric-key encryption software
Jump up ^ Bellare, Mihir. "Public-Key Encryption in a Multi-user Setting: Security Proofs and Improvements." Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2000. Page 1.
Jump up ^ "Symantec buys encryption specialist PGP for $300M". Computerworld. 2010-04-29. Retrieved 2010-04-29.
Jump up ^ Robert Richardson, 2008 CSI Computer Crime and Security Survey at 19.i.cmpnet.com
Jump up ^ Fiber Optic Networks Vulnerable to Attack, Information Security Magazine, November 15, 2006, Sandra Kay Miller
Further reading[edit]
Fouché Gaines, Helen (1939), Cryptanalysis: A Study of Ciphers and Their Solution, New York: Dover Publications Inc, ISBN 978-0486200972
Kahn, David, The Codebreakers - The Story of Secret Writing (ISBN 0-684-83130-9) (1967)
Preneel, Bart, "Advances in Cryptology — EUROCRYPT 2000", Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2000, ISBN 978-3-540-67517-4
Sinkov, Abraham, Elementary Cryptanalysis: A Mathematical Approach, Mathematical